Hey, how are you? Doing well?
I'm good.
Follow me.
-Welcome.
-Thanks.
Are you okay?
-I'm fine. You?
-I'm fine.
What is this? What happened to you?
It's nothing. I fell.
What do you mean, you fell?
I just fell.
He says hi.
Come on!
Hurry up. I've been asking you
to do this for five minutes.
Hey, in the back!
Come in.
He's always late!
-8:40 a.m.?
-Public transit, miss.
Do you have your own public transit?
You're the only one who is late.
-Do you know what "public" means?
-What "public" means?
Transit for a guy in misery?
-He's right.
-No.
It means for everyone. Shared among many.
Get your things out.
"The street about me
roared with a deafening sound."
So put in your AirPods.
-"And there, in the middle of the crowd…"
-A chick.
A chick.
Tall, slender, and sadly beautiful.
Sadly hot.
Yeah!
Hey, okay! Enough.
He was so thirsty.
Baudelaire is a Symbolist poet.
Miss, we don't care about Baudelaire.
Can't you tell us
about stuff from our century?
-Like who?
-I don't know, Niro?
-Ninho, miss!
-Or Kalash Criminel!
We can think about it, but today,
we're reading To a Passerby by Baudelaire.
The poem speaks of love.
That's a universal subject.
Has it never happened to you?
You're waiting for the RER.
You see someone, and you think,
"Maybe we could have had
an amazing love story."
Not to me. If I see a chick I like,
I go get her Snap.
You get it.
You're a player, man.
Shut up. Whose Snap
are you gonna get with that face?
He's jealous because he's ugly.
He's not going to get one Snap. It's sad.
Fuck you. You think I'm your buddy?
-Watch your language, Anis.
-My language?
He's been disrupting the class.
Now it's my fault?
Miss, let it go.
That's how Aviateurs guys are.
They talk a lot,
but when it goes down, they run.
Run? Run from what?
-I said, you run!
-Boys, stop!
You run away!
Fuck you! You're putting on a show!
-Let's go outside!
-Noumouké!
-Let him. He's putting on a show.
You show up late,
then you start acting out?
Keep your head down. Calm down, okay?
Both of you go to the principal's office.
-Mr. Delors?
-Yes?
Mr. Mercier is ready to see you.
Would you please follow me?
Yes.
-Mr. Mercier?
-Yes.
Mr. Delors is here.
Hello.
Mr. Mercier, this is Mr. Traoré.
He's my sales manager.
Hello, Mr. Traoré.
Hello.
Look, Mr. Delors.
Your company has experience
in the building trades.
We've looked at your balance sheet,
which was quite impressive for 2019.
It's two years since
we opened the insulation division.
An initiative of our sales manager,
Mr. Traoré.
He's the boss. His wish is my command.
He's not full of himself either?
No.
Let's get straight to the point.
How many gigs do you produce a month?
What? 150? 200?
200 gigs.
-We'll need one tera by next month.
-That's 1,000 gigs.
We can do it.
The ones before you said they could do it.
But they didn't convince you.
Otherwise, we wouldn't be here.
Do you know what that means?
You'll need five times more customers.
Five times more sales representatives,
labor, trucks, materials,
and most of all,
five times more investment.
And you would need five companies
the size of Mr. Delors'.
That means
five times more intermediaries, risk,
and perhaps, in the end,
five times more problems.
I'm sure you have enough problems.
What is this?
-We noticed that you're a soccer fan.
-Well, yes.
This comes with no obligation.
No? Presidential suite?
You should have started with that.
-It's in the bag.
-Don't get carried away. It's not done.
If it does work out,
I still need to find trucks, salesmen,
and even a call center.
Anyway, if it works out,
you're going to double your revenue.
And?
I'd like a little raise.
Remember when you came from Belgium
without a penny to your name?
What did you say?
Find me something. Give me work.
Do you remember?
Now you get 3,000 euros a month
just to put your name on some papers,
and you want a raise?
Get out of the car.
-Demba, come on.
-Get out of the car!
-It's far.
-I said, get out of the car!
Hurry up, for fuck's sake!
Okay.
You'll end up with nothing!
-You're gonna leave me here?
-Shut up.
Careful, Rime!
Let's go!
Come on, let's go!
Yes, come in.
Yes, I'll be late.
I can't be in two places at once.
I'll call you back.
Soulaymaan, what can I do for you?
I'm tired of preparing drafts.
It's part of the job.
I know, but I didn't become an attorney
to do that.
I want to plead, to work with clients.
A real attorney.
You're an associate in this firm.
Nothing is stopping you from
pleading for your own clients in court.
Come on.
You're drowning us in work.
Even if I took my own clients,
I'd never find the time to attend to them.
You are compensated in return.
You're welcome
to put an end to this collaboration.
Young lawyers are lining up at the door.
Soulaymaan.
Go visit our clients in the Fleury Prison.
You want to work with clients, right?
That's not what I had in mind.
Well, it's that or drafts.
Of course, be reassuring.
Tell them that the case is moving forward.
That you're going to talk to the judge.
Yes? I was going to call you back.
-Are you good? All right?
-Yeah, you? Chilling.
So?
Demba, hook me up
with your guy at the Port of Le Havre.
I'm going to get my own stuff.
I'm not involved anymore.
I don't want to be seen with them.
If you stop taking Abdel's stuff,
you'll be in trouble.
-I don't want my name to come up.
-Who is Abdel? I do what I want.
There's no godfather or whatever.
This isn't Italy.
You know how much he makes
with Sahli's turf?
He supplies all of Val-de-Marne,
and I can't get my own stuff?
Come on, brother.
I'm gonna tell you something.
It was Abdel who told me this.
"On the streets, there are
two kinds of people who don't last."
"An old-timer underestimating
a young guy's greed."
"A young guy underestimating
an old-timer's experience."
You understand?
Okay, Demba. See you later.
What did he say?
He's underestimating my greed.
Fuck him and Abdel.
-No. Don't say that, bruh.
-What? Are you with them or with me?
It's not about that.
When I had trouble with guys from Auber,
Demba stuck his neck out for me.
You can't forget that.
I got it. He's your big brother. Fine.
Your plate.
-I'm good, Mom.
-No, eat a bit more.
A little bit, then.
That's a little bit?
Eat.
That's not a little bit.
INCOMING CALL
SOFIA
Remember Hawa?
Binta's daughter.
She's getting married soon.
Binta's daughter is getting married?
How old is she?
She's 22.
I was married at 18.
Right.
Ma, do you have someone for Soulaymaan?
A chick without teeth.
Stop it.
If Soulaymaan was ready,
I'd get him a woman tomorrow.
A lot of moms have asked me.
-A lot of moms?
-A lot.
Okay.
He's not into that. He's going to bring
a very white, blue-eyed blonde.
That's what he's into.
There's the daughter of the cousin--
The cousin of your aunt,
the one who lives close to the neighbor…
Her daughter-in-law who…
It's fine. Thank you.
Are you making fun of your poor mother?
No, Mom. I have a career to build.
It's not everything to have a family.
You have to be able to afford it.
Soulaymaan, your father wasn't a lawyer.
You've always had a roof over your head,
food and drink, and clothes.
Right?
INCOMING CALL
SOFIA
Turn that off, Noumouké.
How is school?
-Is that it?
-I'm getting good grades.
-It's fine.
-I hope so, for your sake.
It's time for prayer.
-Enjoy your meal.
-Thank you.
Where are you going?
Six months wasn't enough?
You want to go back to prison?
You're not leaving here.
Fuck him up!
What's up? What are you talking about?
I didn't tell Demba
about you being expelled.
But that's it.
I'm not covering for you anymore.
-Do you have a short memory?
-I never asked you for anything.
-I never asked you to take the blame.
-I know.
You didn't have to ask.
Close the door.
Big brother.
Abdou!
Aïssa! Come.
Why did you do that?
Fuck!
Stop! Hey, stop!
Stop! Give me your hands!
You're hurting me! Let go of me!
I can hold it.
-Give it. I'll--
-Stop it!
Sofia, Demba was there.
He stopped me. I couldn't leave.
You think I was scared?
You think I was scared or what?
You'll see what I'm going to do to them.
Hang on. It's that son of a bitch, Anis.
You bitches!
We have to wait. They'll be expecting us.
You'll see.
Trust me.
Let me hold it for you.
The projects
They had the nerve to raid the projects
I'll show them that I can be bad too
And I won't need my big brother for that
Give me a piece
And I'll even leave them on the ground
On the ground
When?
Tomorrow morning.
-How much?
-Ten kilos of hash and two kilos of coke.
Where is the pickup?
The usual.
You're sure he'll be there?
Yeah, I'm sure.
Farid.
If you're jerking me around…
Look at me.
I won't let it go.
Hey.
-You got me?
-I got you.
Show your hands!
Mr. Abdel.
What's going on? You're surprised?
All this for me?
That's right. All this for you.
An apple a day
keeps the doctor away.
You're cocky, eh?
On my mother's life, I'll get you.
Don't worry. You piece of shit.
We're missing some completion notices.
I did it. It's in order.
Rime has been asking for them for a week.
You see her?
She acts on my behalf.
-Okay, boss.
-Okay.
Your cousin is here.
Let him in. Never make Doums wait.
Bring me the notices, guys.
I'm getting the truck. I'll bring them.
"I'm getting the truck. I'll bring them."
-He heard you, you crazy fool.
-What is he gonna do?
You work with undocumented workers.
-They're absolute machines.
-I'm gonna rat you out to the URSSAF.
Hire some guys from the projects.
All they do is complain
and ask for raises.
That's called integration.
That's assimilation, not integration.
You can't tell
guys from the projects a thing.
You're making a killing.
Appearances can be deceiving.
I've had one struggle after another.
That said, sitting in an office all day,
checking on employees,
that's not for me.
You spend hours overseeing a trap house.
I saw that coming.
I miss Samir, that bastard.
Demba!
Watch out!
Are you really done?
Do you know what insanity is?
Insanity is always doing the same thing
and expecting different results.
Stop philosophizing.
Come on. Come here.
Hello.
-Hello.
-How are you?
Are you kidding me?
I've been struggling for an hour.
You're looking for trouble. Turn that off.
Get up.
I had to fight the principal
to prevent you from being expelled.
Even for you to be allowed
on school grounds.
Come sit down.
You're gonna read this.
Noumouké, you're gonna read this book
and write me an essay
about how it made you feel.
I don't want an analysis.
I want to know what you felt.
Miss, the truth is,
that doesn't interest me much.
Oh yeah? And how do you know that?
I know myself well.
The hardest part is starting.
I promise you
that you'll lose track of time.
What's this thing about?
It's the story of Martin Eden.
No, really? Doesn't it say Martin Eden?
It's about a guy who doesn't like to read
and spends his time fighting.
Remind you of someone?
And you?
One day, Martin Eden defends
someone in a fight. A very rich man.
The rich man has a sister.
Martin Eden falls in love with her.
But the sister is upper class.
She's educated, rich.
So Martin Eden tells himself
he'll educate himself.
He'll read every book.
And once he's like her,
she'll fall in love with him.
You think I'm Martin Eden?
You think I'm going to read
to seduce a chick?
You've never fought to impress a girl?
So, does he get with her?
-What?
-Stop playing.
In the end, does he get with the chick?
-Where are you headed?
-Nanterre.
That's far.
-Good evening.
-Good evening, Djenaba.
And you? Choisy?
-No, Vitry.
-She has to pick up her son.
You have a son.
Yes. Idrissa. He's ten years old.
You're going from here to Vitry,
Vitry to Choisy, on public transit?
That's how it is
raising a child on your own.
I can take you partway.
You surprised me
with that meeting with Arcus.
I've been trying to get one for ages.
Where were you working before this?
I haven't worked for two years.
Wow. Why is that?
I started wearing the veil two years ago.
And you, sir?
What did you do before insulation?
Me?
Always the construction industry.
You don't have to call me "sir."
I'm not 50 years old.
I can't do it.
Why not?
I don't know.
It's not like you're that young.
I'm joking.
Stop acting crazy.
-You played me real good!
-Calm down! What's going on?
Why would I do that?
I want Abdel to fall too.
-How would he have known?
-No clue. Your colleagues?
Stop your bullshit.
You think everybody is
into double-crossing like you?
I warned you, Farid.
I'm not letting you out of my sight.
I'm going to be a leech.
I'm going to eat Farid, sleep Farid,
and when I fuck, I'll fuck Farid.
It won't stop until you go down. Trust me.
Shut up! Don't touch me!
Stop getting angry for nothing.
This is my turf, I swear!
If I were you, I'd keep a low profile.
You know why?
Because Abdel probably knows
it came from you.
What did you tell him? Huh?
You fucking bitch!
The chambermaids at the Hotel Ibis
in Batignolles are on strike.
They're protesting their work conditions
and low wages.
Among their demands,
they mention the unequal treatment
of subcontractors and salaried employees.
Turn it down.
They've been showing the same thing.
"They've been showing the same thing…"
You've been watching the same shit too.
I'm going to bed.
There's nothing to do here.
He's offended.
Okay, Mr. Lawyer.
You're really going to sleep?
Yeah, I am. I'm dead.
Miss Saadi made me read all day.
What book?
Martin Eden by Jack London.
"On the library shelves,
I saw a world emerge on the horizon."
-You read it?
-Yeah, I read it.
You know it by heart?
No, I don't know it by heart.
I only know a few quotes.
It always sounds good to add
one or two quotations to a defense speech.
All that to seem French.
What do you mean, "to seem French"?
I don't want to be uncultured.
"He who speaks the language
of a people avoids its evil."
Hello.
He's asking us
to provide one tera by next month.
We don't have enough staff…
DINNER?
I DON'T KNOW…
You should ask the big boss. Demba?
Demba?
We're going to grow the team.
We'll have to train the new people.
We'll use a second call center in Morocco.
THAT'S NOT A NO…
We're not sending you out to battle
without any weapons.
-How are you, Ma?
-I'm good, Soulaymaan.
Can I try?
Mama. Come on. Just a little bit.
It's for my charity.
You know I love your bissap.
If you like the bissap, pay for it.
How is it going?
I'm at the preface. It's moving along.
Do you like it?
If you're trying to tell me
I need to become a nerd to make it,
I think I get it.
Right, can I go?
Bye, miss.
-You're not taking the book?
-No.
I'm not bringing it home unless I have to.
Traoré.
-That's how you greet me?
-I don't have friends in the police.
I know. Mr. Demba Traoré isn't a snitch.
I hear you're in the insulation business?
-You're going to arrest me for that?
-No. What I'm interested in is narcotics.
I'm not involved.
What are you trying to do here? Tell me.
You're trying to start a new life?
It's the new Demba, is that it?
Do you remember June 28, 2018?
On the day they tried to kill you,
guess whose phone pinged
in the same area Sahli was in?
You don't like guessing games?
You're trying to tell me
Abdou was involved? I knew that.
No.
Abdou and Sahli were tight.
But between you and me,
you think they did that on their own?
Those two? Demba, who ended Sahli?
Who took over Sahli's trap house
when he got killed?
Who's dealing to Farid now
that you're out of the game?
Here.
I don't want it.
They're photos from a surveillance camera.
They were together on the same day.
You want to use me
to get rid of your enemies?
No. You're not a murderer, Demba.
You're in the insulation business, right?
It wasn't easy to get these photos.
Take the time to look at them.
I can't believe it!
-He got Assia's Snap!
-Stop it.
You got Assia's Snap! That's nasty!
Nasty.
Aren't they the guys from Aviateurs?
Hey! The guys from Aviateurs
are at the bus stop.
-Who?
-The guys from Aviateurs.
Take this.
Let's go, guys. Let's go. Let's get off.
Are you shaking?
What's up?
Hey, come here!
Hey, he's going down! Down!
Stop running! I won't hurt you!
You'll see, you son of a bitch!
What's up, you son of a bitch?
Let go of me.
Remember me, you son of a bitch?
Look at me, you son of a bitch!
Remember me?
Film it! That's how it is in Bois-l'Abbé.
We kick your asses!
You son of a bitch.
You bitches.
-Let's go.
-You little shit.
This place is wonderful.
Didn't I tell you you'd enjoy it?
-You can be sure I'll come back.
-No "sir"?
It's the first time.
Thank you.
Can I ask you a question?
Yes.
Since you know religion well…
Hold on. It's not because I wear the veil
that I know religion well.
Okay, don't be so humble.
You know the basics.
Yes. The very basics.
You know, in religion,
from what I know,
all sins can be repented.
Yes.
Even when you kill someone?
Why are you asking me this?
Don't freak out. It's not for me. It's…
Someone asked me, and so, you know,
I'm asking you because you'll know.
I don't want to tell him nonsense.
In religion, all sins can be repented
as long as you're alive.
But the sin of murder is
one of the biggest sins.
You should know that.
Yeah, I know that.
I told you that it wasn't for me.
Can I take these?
-Yes.
-Sure.
Soulaymaan,
you're going to plead in court.
A case was brought up
for immediate arraignment.
Neither Perrier nor I can go.
My secretary has emailed you.
It's time.
Hello.
Mr. Traoré.
You're the attorney?
Who else could it be?
You're young.
Mr. Millet, I'm going to get you released.
How? I confessed to everything
while I was in custody.
It'd take too much time to explain.
The judge will try his best
to save the case.
He's going to ask you questions
to get you to repeat your confession,
which he could then use against you.
All I'm asking is
that you stay quiet.
Hello, sir. Mr. Traoré.
I'm representing Mr. Millet.
Sir, the floor is yours.
Sir, I'll be brief.
Police officers arrested Mr. Millet
at 10:58 a.m. on October 20th
and placed him in custody
for violence with intent.
While he was in custody,
the detectives interrogated Mr. Millet
about a small amount of cannabis
which they pretended he was carrying.
"Pretended"?
However,
Mr. Millet wasn't placed
in custody for drug possession.
He was there for violence with intent,
damage and breach of property.
The prosecutor will be aware that,
according to French law,
a person in custody
cannot be interrogated about an offense
other than the one
they have been accused of.
And that's not all. According to
Article 706-30-1 of the criminal code,
when it comes to drug possession,
the weighing must be open.
The person in custody must attend
the weighing of the products,
which wasn't the case.
For all these reasons, I'm asking for
the cancellation of the proceedings.
Very well.
Sir.
We have Mr. Millet's confession
in which he admitted
to punching Mrs. Marty in the face
several times.
He can't deny it, as her jaw was broken
because, and let me quote him,
"The bitch didn't want to open the door."
That's all. I'll let you appreciate
his artful wording.
Are these your words, Mr. Millet?
Mr. Millet, please?
I'll remain silent.
What?
Speak louder, Mr. Millet.
We can't hear you.
I'll remain silent.
A bit like him, I'm full of hate
I come from the bottom, like Martin Eden
A bit like him, I--
The Frenchman is back.
No. Don't tell me you walked through
the projects like that, please.
With a big blue, white, and red flag.
Okay, I was joking, man.
Fuck you.
The lawyer is so rude.
Mama, you're looking at Mr. Traoré,
attorney-at-law.
You're handsome, my son.
Thank you. I pleaded in court
for the first time today.
I got the client released.
Wow. Tell me about it, my son.
Come on, tell us.
A man accused of breaking his wife's jaw
was taken for immediate arraignment,
and I managed to…
What, Ma?
They need an attorney too.
But does it have to be you?
So?
Forget about insulation.
Open a restaurant.
You'll have learned that in the slammer.
There's something I don't get.
Who took Sahli out?
It can't be Abdou. He was his friend.
These things happen.
It wouldn't be the first time.
Do you know the story
about the frog and the scorpion?
A scorpion goes to a frog and asks,
"Can you carry me on your back
across the river?"
The frog looks at the scorpion and says,
"No. You're going to sting me."
The scorpion looks at the frog
and says, "But if I sting you,
we're both going to drown."
"I can't swim."
The frog thinks about it
and eventually agrees.
They start crossing the river.
In the middle of the river,
the scorpion stings the frog.
The scorpion says,
"I'm sorry."
"I couldn't help it."
"It's my nature."
And they both drown.
Did you know it?
Yeah.
I like hearing you tell stories.
Yeah! Hey, Noumouké!
Catch that son of a bitch!
Stop running!
-You're dead!
-I'm going to fuck you up!
Stop!
Come here, you bitch!
We're going to kill that guy. Get him!
-Look!
-He's there!
Go fuck your mothers!
Fuck him up!
Where's that bastard?
-Come on, go around. We'll catch him.
-Over there.
-Don't do anything stupid.
-No.
What are you doing here?
Get lost. Stop sucking your teeth.
I said not to give them anything.
I know, Farid. I won't.
Three, two, one.
Look at that.
It's wonderful.
You know what they say?
No.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
You're such a smooth talker.
Have you ever gone up?
No, but I'd really like to.
Yeah?
And you?
Not yet.
We can't keep seeing each other like this.
"Like this"?
Like this, without purpose.
I need to know where we're headed.
I can't play. I don't have the time.
You think I'm playing?
No, I didn't say that.
But I'm warning you.
And nothing is going to happen.
Meaning?
Nothing is going to happen physically.
I'm saving myself.
Fine with me.
And so?
-What do you mean, "And so?"
-What do you want?
-Hello?
-Yeah.
-Noumouké?
-I'm joking. It's Noumouké's voice mail.
It's his voice mail.
Go ahead. You can pick up. I don't mind.
No, it's my mother.
I'll take you home.
Then I'll call her back.
Here's a story.
A friend of mine was at a restaurant,
and her mother wouldn't stop calling,
you know?
Instead of picking up,
she sent her a message,
saying, "I'll call you later."
But later never came.
That story traumatized me.
Now, when my mother calls me,
I pick up right away.
Yeah, Mom, it's me.
Demba. Help me find Noumouké.
Noumouké didn't come home.
Find him for me. I don't know where he is.
Hey!
-I'm going to fuck you up!
-Shut up!
Let go of me!
Gun!
Come on, get up!
Sofia! Come on, let's go!
Lamine, come here.
I said, come here.
-Where is Noumouké?
-I don't know.
-Don't play with me, Lamine.
-I'm not.
-Where is Noumouké?
-I don't know.
-Did he get arrested?
-No, he didn't.
Who fired the gun?
No one fired the gun.
"No one fired the gun"?
It was Sofia, but she fired into the air.
-Then we all ran away.
-Where did she get the piece?
Where did she get it?
At Farid's trap house.
They're waiting to get paid.
Yeah, but…
Hey.
You give weapons to my brother?
I didn't.
-To his friends. It's the same thing.
-I didn't, Demba.
Then they did. Aren't you the boss?
-Are you for real?
-What do you mean, "Am I for real"?
-You do this in front of everybody?
-What are you going to do?
Don't lie to yourself.
You're here because I left.
Get that son of a bitch!
Get him! Bring him back to me!
Bruh, are you okay?
I'm going to end him.
Pick your side, and fast.
He's going to go back to prison.
Stop scaring her.
Nobody died.
Noumouké needs to leave
the gangs and weapons behind.
You need to talk to him.
Mom, when I was his age,
there already was trouble with Aviateurs.
I was involved in it too.
Exactly.
That's why he's going to listen to you.
Will you?
Yeah.
Okay.
Don't worry. He'll be back.
-Bye.
-It's Lamine.
-What is he saying?
Demba got him. He's looking for you.
Fuck, he's going to kill me.
I can't go home tonight.
You're staying here?
My brother leaves for work at 8:00 a.m.
My mom at 9:00 a.m.
I'll wait for them to go.
I need to go home,
or my mother will destroy me.
Stay with me for a bit?
I would've liked
to have brothers and sisters.
Am I not your brother?
Do you miss your father?
Yeah, I miss him.
And you?
I can't miss him. I don't know him.
When he heard my mother was pregnant,
he left. He didn't want me.
One day, we can try and look for him.
He doesn't want me.
I'm not going to run after him.
Dad isn't here anymore
Nobody knows how much pain I am in
I feel like I am in a starless night
Are these your lyrics?
Yeah.
Go on, sing it.
Dad isn't here anymore
Nobody knows much pain I'm in
I feel like I am in a starless night
It's all blurry
I don't know where to go
I just feel like running away
Mom doesn't smile anymore
Home feels empty
No sun on the horizon
And some voids can never be filled
We can tell ourselves it will pass
But Dad isn't here anymore
My Dad isn't here anymore
Nobody knows how much pain I am in
Since Dad is gone
Even summer feels cold
ALARM
06:45
What are you doing, Ma?
I'm looking out for the police
so that I can open the door
before they break it.
They aren't going to come.
Come.
Come rest.
I'm tired, Noumouké.
Police!
-What's going on?
-Don't move! Show your hands!
-Your hands!
-Yes! What's going on?
Come here. On your knees!
What's going on?
Sofia!
Sofia, what have you done?
What's happening?
You look beautiful.
I'm heading out.
When are you leaving?
I won't go to work until Noumouké is back.
It's going to be fine, okay?
He's going to come home.
I love you.
I love you too.
Madam, put your phone away.
-This isn't a show.
-Sofia!
Where are you taking her? Sofia.
-Where are you taking her?
-Let go of me!
You hear what I'm saying?
Put the phone away. Stop filming.
-What did she do?
-Let go of me!
Mom!
Come on, move along.
Help!
What did he do? Did he hit you?
…not far away
No time for tomorrow
And if we were far away from here
But near Panama
Far away
No time for tomorrow
And if we were far away from here
Oh baby
We promised each other to never let go
That we would--
Ma?
Only God can create
something that doesn't exist.
Human beings are not able to create.
For if human beings could create,
then the blind man would make himself see.
The deaf man would make himself hear.
The quadriplegic
would make himself mobile.
Not only that,
but most human beings
would give themselves
and their loved ones eternal life.
So, my brother, love whoever you want.
Create attachments to whomever you want.
You'll be separated from them.
Salam.
Death is like a doorway
that each of us will cross.
My condolences.
Death is a journey.
What does anyone with the gift of reason
do before a journey?
How are you feeling?
I used to think I was alone.
Now I truly know what it is.
Listen…
I have a few things to do once I'm back.
After that,
I'd like to meet your son.
And I'd like us to do things by the book.
You know, Demba, there are two states
in which one shouldn't make big decisions.
When you're really happy
and when you're really sad.
I know what I'm saying.
You're going?
Yeah, I'm going.
-Let's talk later?
-Okay.
Have you heard from Mercier?
Don't you want to talk about this later?
What's going on?
Listen, he's backing out.
He's going with another team.
Don't look at me like that.
He's backing out?
We signed a contract.
Did you have a lawyer read that contract?
I invested time and money.
-I know.
-A lot of money.
How much did they give him?
-Who?
-The other team.
How much to get rid of us?
Well, I don't know.
How much does he want?
He'll go with us
if we give him 150,000 in cash.
What was your response?
I didn't close the door to it.
With all the dough you're going to make,
what's 150,000?
My condolences, Demba.
Hey, Franck.
What made him think that you have
150,000 euros lying around like that?
I don't know.
You don't know?
Come see me at the office when I get back.
Until then, you tell him yes.
Got it.
Take care of yourself, Franck.
Yeah, for sure. You too.
Noumouké.
He says you look like
your cousin, Ousmaan.
Ousmaan.
You can't deny you are a Traoré.
When family is corrupted and divided,
then the whole of society is unwell.
Come on, Noumouké. Get up.
I'm coming.
I've come twice already.
Demba, I haven't showered. I'm sweaty.
Take that. Get changed.
What time is it?
-You've slept enough.
-I'm tired.
Where's that well?
Thirty minutes on foot.
Thirty minutes?
Thirty minutes? More like an hour.
How do you know?
You ask too many questions.
He acted out so much
that your mom sent him here.
Aren't you coming?
No, I'll leave this to you.
It's deep, huh?
Okay.
Release it.
-Hi, Ousmaan.
-Noumouké.
Hello.
Hens sit on their eggs…
It's the village school.
Your mother financed
most of it with her charity.
She didn't have the time to finish it.
Hello.
-Hello, Mr. Fodié.
-How are you?
These are the children
of my sister-in-law, Khadijah.
My condolences.
How do you manage during rainy season?
It gets complicated.
We have to finish it.
It's a lot of work.
-Fodié.
-Yes?
Do you think you can find
the materials and workers?
With money, sure.
-Don't worry about money.
-Okay.
Please share your network with me, Demba.
Put your phone away.
Seriously, I really need it.
He says that he doesn't need his phone,
but he wants it.
You live better here than we do.
He says that you're idealizing Africa.
It's been a long time since our societies
became consumer societies too.
Why does he never speak in French?
I speak French better than you.
Hey, come!
Bags go over there.
Yes, Auntie.
-Driss?
-Yeah?
Let's put it up.
-Watch your fingers, guys.
-Yeah.
Thanks. Okay. We got it.
-Is that okay?
-You got it?
Okay.
Come on, Demba. Yeah.
Yeah!
-Okay?
-Thank you very much.
Time for a break, guys. Let's eat?
I'll finish up and join you.
You forgot this bit.
These big pants of yours.
Looks good, doesn't it?
I'm going back to France.
I'm going to stay with the kid
a few more days.
I need to get inside his head.
Are you ready?
I'm warning you, we can't back out.
MINISTRY OF CULTURE
HOUSE OF SLAVES
Hello.
Officially, 12 million slaves
were deported to the Americas.
And some of them were detained
in places similar to this.
It served as a waiting room.
Just like when you get to the hospital,
there's a waiting room.
Small rowboats took them
from here to the big ships,
which in turn went to America.
So, after the door, there was a bridge.
We call it the door of no return
because whoever crossed it
never came back.
KHADIJAH TRAORÉ SCHOOL
LEARN, UNDERSTAND
UNDERTAKE, SERVE
Do you know what Mom asked of me?
What?
For me to tell you to stop your nonsense.
-What nonsense?
-Your shitty projects nonsense.
You were doing the same thing at my age.
I told her you'd say that.
Want to hear something?
With violence,
you decide when to start using it,
but you don't choose when it ends.
Sometimes I feel like
Noumouké is upset with me.
I could have told the cops
that he wasn't involved.
But I didn't.
He'd do it again if he had to.
What are you going to do?
I've never told anyone,
but I think
I've been having panic attacks.
Yeah?
Have you seen anyone?
Seen who?
A therapist.
Me? See a therapist? Have you ever seen
a Black man go to a therapist?
You're such a caricature of yourself.
It can help to talk sometimes.
Give me five.
What are you doing?
What is he doing?
-Come on. Stop.
-Don't make me run.
-Don't hurt me!
-Quiet!
You'll have your construction sites.
Come here! I said, come here!
So, you want to play with me? Come here!
Run, Forrest, run!
Abdou!
Stop!
No! Demba, stop.
Calm down. It was Abdel.
Abdel and Sahli. I wasn't there.
What are you proud of?
You're proud of this?
You're fighting for that?
These buildings we grew up in.
In poverty. No elevators. Roaches.
That's what you're ready to die for?
All day long, all you say is,
"No one likes us in this country."
"No one respects us."
"Fuck the state. There's no work."
"Fuck the police."
So? Of course, fuck the police.
You've got something to say?
Your eye injury,
was it the cops' fault
or because of your stupid raid?
How can you expect anyone to respect us?
We don't even respect one another.
Why would anyone like us?
We hate one another.
And you're always like,
"I love my mother."
"I'll make her a millionaire."
You know what you're going to get her?
Your moms are here. Ask them.
A casket.
Because of your issues.
First leg. Second leg.
It's like the Champions League.
And for the one lying on the ground,
it's game over.
-They come here and bust our balls.
-Shut up!
Noumouké, Anis. Shake hands.
Shake hands.
We can clearly see the police officer
grab the phone and throw it on the ground.
What he didn't know was
that another witness was filming.
I can imagine that you decided
to file a complaint against the officers?
I tried to file a complaint the day after.
I had to visit two police stations.
It's common for police officers to refuse
a complaint in this type of case.
Police tend to protect their own.
You have a very simplistic vision
of the police corps.
I don't wake up wanting
to beat up Black people and Arabs.
Why is he talking?
That may be the case for you.
I don't mean to essentialize.
During the yellow jacket protests,
we saw that the violence experienced
by the communities in the projects
could also be used
against poor, white communities.
We aren't talking about
yellow jackets in a protest right now.
This is the mother of an offender
resisting her daughter's arrest.
Her daughter is incarcerated.
Once again, that is not the issue at hand.
We're not discussing her daughter's trial.
We're questioning the methods
employed by police officers
that hit a woman,
a mother,
sprayed her with tear gas,
and left her on the ground in pain.
The issue is the violence.
I have met with these mothers in tears
who had just lost a child.
Let me tell you one thing.
These mothers aren't worried
about so-called police brutality.
It's easy to denounce
supposed police brutality.
When it comes to denouncing
the violence used by these offenders,
whose victims are primarily
from communities in the projects,
no one says a thing.
See you later.
He's coming out.
-Have a good day.
Your book pissed me off, miss.
Is that all?
This guy works hard to become
someone else, and he ends up alone.
With a bit of willpower and work,
we can become whatever we want.
Not always, miss.
In life, some things are beyond us.
But we can control some things.
And maybe what the author is saying is
that it's not for other people
that you should try your best.
Can I read it?
Officers are subject to quotas.
Management puts pressure on them.
And, of course,
they're expected to hit their targets.
So what you are saying is
that violence committed by the police
against a targeted group
within the population
is a consequence of a quota system
by the Ministry of the Interior
and, therefore, the state.
You've answered our question.
Not only is the state not doing a thing
to prevent police brutality,
but it's actually encouraging it.
Okay, this woman is in good health.
She's alive.
This isn't the George Floyd case
in the United States.
Clearly, she didn't end up
like Amine Bentounsi,
who was shot in the back.
Or suffocated, like Amadou Koumé.
In France, we have our own George Floyds.
It's nothing new.
I'm always amazed by the way some people
are upset by police brutality
on the other side of the Atlantic
while they remain blind, deaf, and mute
about the same brutality in France.
We both know that if a neighbor
hadn't filmed what happened,
Mrs. Fitoussi's words wouldn't have
held up against the police officers.
She would've been portrayed
as a bad mother
who couldn't even raise
her daughter right, isn't that so?
But let's try to see the big picture
and not just debate back and forth.
Slow down. They'll notice us.
I'd say it's up to all of us
to make the world a better place.
And we shouldn't minimize the impact
our actions can have on others.
Get out of the car. Get out.
A smile, a nice word,
and kindness can change someone's day.
A single day
can change the course of a life.
That's why we must all challenge ourselves
and stop repeating the same mistakes.
Idrissa!
Insanity is always doing the same thing
and expecting different results.